[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> One of the great things all
my family and friends love is
potato bake.
And it's always done with cream
from the supermarket, some sort
of cheddar cheese, chicken
stock, and some garlic
and onion, I think,
and some potatoes,
and you whack it in the
tray and da, da, da.
Anyway, I've come up with a
really different alternative
for the dairy free people
out there in the world
and the kids that want to
have potato bake as well.
This is extraordinary.
I even surprised myself
when I first made it.
I actually made it
back at my mom's house
with my girlfriend Courtney.
And when we knew the
dish was extraordinary
is when we couldn't
get enough of it.
So we kept eating it
and eating and eating it
after it was finished.
True story.
OK, preheat your
oven first to 170.
OK, so that's on.
And then let's get
straight to our cream,
cream part of this potato bake.
So in a blender, you're
going to add some cashews.
That's quite a few there.
OK, I'm going to add some water.
And we're just going to blend
this until it's very creamy.
What I'm after in
this consistency
is I don't want to feel
a sandiness of nuts
between my fingers.
Really important.
OK?
So we're going to stop and start
the machine just to see where
we're at for that sandiness.
OK?
OK, lovely.
All right, let's have a look.
This is what I'm after,
this really creamy texture.
Now it's not
seasoned or anything.
So there's no salt
and pepper in there.
We're going to do
that in a minute.
The next point of this--
so that's my cream.
That's the alternative to dairy.
Very good fats in there.
Very, very, very,
very good fats.
OK, all right, next thing I
want to do is cut my potatoes.
Now I'm a family as well.
I've got people coming over.
I'm busy.
I don't want to
be using a knife.
Takes too long.
These are great.
These food processes
are so great.
So you get the blade,
the cutting blade part
of your food processor.
This one's a grader and a
cutter, so that goes that way.
No.
It goes this way,
tricky business.
OK.
Great machines.
All right, I've
got some potatoes
that I washed just before
we started filming.
So they're all done.
Quick recipe, yeah?
Very quick.
I need a bowl, so I
can put all this into.
That's all I'm going to do is
run my potatoes through here.
Now if they don't fit
like this, all you do
is just slice them in half.
We want them nice slices.
Perfect.
Keeping the skins on.
And one more.
How quick's this?
It's the chef's cheat.
Oh, yeah, fabulous.
OK.
Straight into here.
All the same size,
oh, it makes me happy.
OK.
Let's get this back on.
So that's done.
So now I need some
mushrooms and some capsicum,
just for extra plant, you know?
Just for extra
goodness in the world.
So I'm going to do the
same thing actually
with the mushrooms as I
did with the potatoes.
Then I'm going to
wash the machine.
Just put it straight through.
I got sliced mushrooms.
Just lost one.
And that's going
to go into here.
I love how this is
all the same size.
It just makes the cooking
process evenly cooked.
Fabulous.
Put that over there.
Get this out of the way.
All right, now to my capsicum.
The best way to save on--
the best way not to
waste a capsicum is
do exactly what I just did.
And then you can just take out
all this situation like this.
Beautiful.
Now I just want
julienne slices of this.
Nice, sharp knife, yeah?
Just cutting through that.
And then just chop them
in half again and again.
Quickest potato bake in town.
Bits of garlic, just for that
flavor, about three cloves,
I reckon, nice big ones.
Actually, I might
put four in there.
So just smash them.
You know what that does?
This is easy to
get the skins off.
All it does is make it easy,
so I can just slice them up.
In the raw food program
I have, we use garlic.
And I do the same thing.
Smash it, but I throw
the whole thing in there
because that's organic garlic.
They've been washed,
cleaned very well.
And the skin's holding
onto nutrients.
So throughout that
program, you'll
see me popping in the whole
garlic, skins and all.
All right, so just running my
knife through, as you can see,
just chopping that fairly fine,
not too fine and not too chunky
just in between.
Here we go.
I'm going to pop
that into there.
Lovely bubbly.
All right, next thing
we're going to do
is get our baking tray.
Any size baking tray you like.
I want something a little bit
deep instead of quite fat.
So I want this to be quite deep.
So I'm going to use this one.
OK, so salt and pepper and
some lovely fresh ground
pepper out of my
mortar and pestle.
Mortar and pestle, that's it.
Yeah.
All right.
All right, I've
got a bigger bowl
because I've got
quite a lot here.
I love how all the potatoes
are all the same size.
OK, here comes my
wet mix of cream.
Get all that goodness
out of there.
All right, now I'm just going
to mix this with my hands,
making sure that
garlic is spread out,
making sure the potatoes
are all covered.
And they're not sitting, not
clumping together like this,
just making sure everything's
covered in this mix.
OK, now get this out of the way.
Let's pack our tin with
this beautiful mixture.
Now I'm just going
to press this down,
so everything is even on one.
Every time I put something in,
I'm just going to dump it in.
I'm just going to push it down,
making sure everything's even,
there's no holes there.
Garlic coming through.
It's really beautiful,
really beautiful.
OK, now for this
beautiful liquid.
This is the gold right here.
You don't want to be
wasting any of this.
This is the important part.
This is the cream.
God, I love this big bowl.
A bit awkward, but I'm going to
do it as gracefully as I can.
Family dinner tonight.
Whole family's
coming over tonight.
All right, now pushing it down.
It's one thing Heather taught me
with her potato bike actually.
She said, make sure you push it
down, Cynthia, with your hands.
Yes, Heather.
OK, wash my hands.
And I want a bit
of color on there.
So you can use paprika or you
can use some cayenne pepper
if you want that hot spiky,
the hot heat coming through.
I've got some fresh ground chili
that I did earlier actually.
So I'm just going to
get a little sieve.
So I've just freshly
ground some dried chili.
You can use paprika, totally,
whatever, whatever you want.
So I'm just going to pop this
on top just for a bit of color.
And I do want a little bit
of heat coming through.
Is that lovely?
Freshly ground chili, hey?
It worked.
Just give it a wee
shake to make sure
that liquid's kind of getting
in amongst those potatoes.
Really important.
All right, so the foil is just
going to lock in the steam,
so that the cream
doesn't dry out.
And the potatoes cook quicker.
So you're just going to
put this over the top.
And you want to be really quite
firm here trapping in that air.
You don't want to
let in the air.
[INAUDIBLE] You really want that
to act as a steaming technique.
And I'm going to pop
this into the oven.
So nice and tight
around those edges.
OK, all right.
Nice hot oven, straight in.
All right, the
kitchen is smelling
of garlic and capsicum and
mushrooms of potato bake glory.
All right, this has
got to be ready by now.
Now when you take this
off, just be careful,
yeah, because of the stain.
So you want to really just be
mindful of what you're doing.
Just pull it back
towards you and let
that steam just come up.
And there we have it.
It's good.
Oh, yeah, beautiful.
Beautiful, beautiful,
beautiful, perfect.
Now I'm going to
let this sit just
let those flavors marry and
relax into the creamy sauce
that it is.
And then I'm going to serve
it up tonight for dinner.
It's really that simple.
Let's have a little
bit of a look
see at what this
looks like on a plate.
What an easy dish, hey?
What a great way to
recreate one of those really
classic, classic dishes.
Very creamy.
Very soft.
Very potatoey.
There we go.
Yeah.
I'm just trying to be sensible,
but it's really yummy and hot.
Mmm.
Make sure you get
that salt and pepper
right in the beginning, yeah,
because that just brings out
flavor.
This is-- you know what,
make it and comment below.
This is full, creamy
deliciousness.
I don't even-- it
doesn't even feel
like there's no cream in it.
Like somebody wouldn't know.
All these good bits, see
all these good bits here?
You want to keep those.
All right, there we go.
Potato bake without dairy.
Genius.
Enjoy this.
Sorry.
I'm very excited
because it's finished,
and we can get to eat it now.
Oh, wow.
That was quick.
La, la, la, la.
Oh my god.
I'm excited.
It's really good.
Give it a big hand to this
sweet potato, everybody.
The star of the show.
Hallelujah.
You think this is
funny, you come do this.